The data collections, event definitions and MIBs files were compiled on Debian with the following paths. If you don't use Debian (or flavor there of), you'll have to find the locations yourself after you finish the install.
Keep in mind that if you want to use the repos to pull the latest greatest OpenNMS, which I recommend for ease of installation, you will need to put a hold on all opennms related packages, because once you start altering the XML files and tweaking them to your custom needs, the repo updates will break you entire installation. I also recommend nightly scripted crond tarball jobs on the directory you chosen to install OpenNMS on. Be sure you are not backing up the install folders that have the sym links, but the actual folders themselves with the XML files you will be customizing your OpenNMS installation with. I'm not talking about the /usr/share/opennms directory. In my case, the XML files you customize are in /etc/opennms, and some installations, possibly /opt/opennms. When you get ready for an upgrade to the new version, just build a new server, export your database, scp your tarball to a safe directory to work from, reinstall, hold packages, and copy customizations. Yes, I know it sounds tedious, but I can do an uprade with all customizations in less than 3 hours (including testing), with no loss of data other than maybe a single 5 minute poll interval. After you do a couple of upgrades, you should have a documented method you can follow to save time. If you are not installing this on linux, then any Windows users need to view the difference between the original and the files discussed below. The mib files are fine, it's the XML files I'm referencing here for the Windows people to compare/contrast.

The following files in this github will help you beef up your data collection and event definitions. If you would like me to add any specific mibs, data collections and event definitions, please drop me a pull request and I'll get to them as I have time. I'm not getting paid to manage this github. The tarballs are JUST the files compressed, they are NOT in a folder, so if you are not putting them in the destination directory as listed below, be sure you create a directory and put the tarball in it before untaring it. You can compare the permissions/ownerships of the files post installation with these in the github so you don't get startup errors due to having the wrong user permissions set. All of the XML files are UTF-8 and XML version 1.


1) MIB files
I've compiled all of these mibs in OpenNMS versions 22 and up, made corrections to some of the object references that would not compile, and generated data collection sets, along event definitions for trap translations. The folder locations for these mibs in debian based systems is /var/lib/opennms/mibs/compiled. Copy the tarball in that directory and untar them. You can always right click on them in the OpenNMS GUI and test compiling again, which I recommend you do in order to get familiar.

2) Events
The events were all generated from the compiled mibs. In the debian install the eventconf.xml file should be put in /etc/opennms, replacing the existing one, but please make backups of originals before doing such. You should probably just tarball the entire /etc/opennms directory after the fresh install is completed as a precaution. Copy the events.tar.gz file to the /etc/opennms/events folder, and untar it there. This is where the actual event definitions go that are referenced in the eventconf.xml file one level up.

3) Data Collection
The data collections were generated from the compiled mibs. Copy the datacollection-config.xml file to the /etc/opennms or wherever your XML files are for your installation. Copy the datacollections.tar.gz to the /etc/opennms/datacollection folder and untar there.


---------------
Once you have replaced all those files and corrected any permission/ownership discrepancies, either restart OpenNMS and all related child services/processes, or just reboot the computer. If you did something wrong, then OpenNMS will not start and will likely throw a JAVA RMI exception, check logs and the folder/file should be in them exposing the culprit. If that happens, you'll have to replace the above list/contents of files/folders with the originals you tarballed post installation, restart and troubleshoot further. The mibs in the mibs folder won't be the problem, it will be something in an XML file that is the issue, but these XML files should be the same across all operating systems OpenNMS can be installed on. I have NOT tested the XML customizations on a Windows installation, but the mib files are fine.